# ff7-to-fbx

Translates Final Fantasy VII graphics assets to FBX format.

# Environment

- Windows 10

- Install Python 3.7
  - https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-379/
  - Install to C:\Python37
  - Add to PATH:
    - Window key, System Properties, Environment Variables, Edit
    - Put these before all other Python related paths:
        - C:\Python33\Scripts\
        - C:\Python33\

- Install FBX Python SDK
  - Go to http://www.autodesk.com/fbx
  - "Get FBX SDK"
  - Download and install "FBX SDK 2020.3.2 Python"
  - Copy FBX library files to Python site-packages. Example:
    - Copy the contents of C:\Program Files\Autodesk\FBX\FBX Python SDK\2020.3.2\lib\Python37_x64
    - to C:\Python37\Lib\site-packages
    - Note: If the Autodesk folder name is not `Python37*`, might need newer version of Python

- Verify
  - New Command Line window
  - `python --version`
    - output: `Python 3.7.9`
  - `python`
  - `>>> import fbx`
  - `>>> help(fbx)`
    - output: should show a ton of classes

- Install FF7 JSON files
  - Use external tool (TO DO: Explain) to translate FF7 native to JSON
  - For more information, please contact: picklejar76@gmail.com

# Run

Translation order is: FF7 native -> JSON -> FBX

1. Use ff7Translator tool from an EXTERNAL project (TBD)
to translate FF7 native files -> JSON.

2. Use fbxTranslator.py in THIS project
to translate JSON -> FBX.

`python main.py`

# FAQ

- Q. What is "ff7Translator tool" in step 1?

- A. If I remember correctly, this step is done by a tool within the kujata project.
For more information, please contact: picklejar76@gmail.com

- Q. What are all the input parameters for? And experimenter.py?

- A. Japanese game engines use a left-handed coordinate system.
This means that 3D models get screwed up when running in western systems.
In order to work around this problem, data must be interpreted and translated
in a different way. This involves changing X/Y/Z axis flipping, rotations, etc.
The experimeter.py generates a ton of these different combinations.
Almost all of them produce garbage results.
Only 1 combination produced a usable result, although it was "upside down".

- Q. This project seems to be missing some key files?

- A. That's definitely possible. Sorry.
Look in the `fbx` directory for examples of *.fbx files that
were generated by this tool 4 years ago. If you're lucky,
some of them might be usable.
